I'll make you a bet. Pull up your
LinkedIn profile right now. I can find
at least one thing that's actively
suppressing your reach. Not maybe. Every
single account we've audited has at
least one. By the end of this video,
you'll know exactly what it is and how
to fix it. And I'm not guessing.
Everything I'm about to show you comes
from LinkedIn's own research papers,
their VP of engineering's public posts,
and an official corporate announcement
from 2 weeks ago. I'm going to give you
eight rules, and after each one, I'll
tell you the exact thing to go change
right now. So, let's get into what
happened. Earlier this year, LinkedIn
started publishing research about their
algorithm. One paper described a 150
billion parameter AI model called 360
Brew designed to unify their ranking
systems. That paper got taken down from
the archive for licensing reasons
shortly after it went up. Then October
2025, a second paper dropped from
LinkedIn's own team describing a
completely rebuilt retrieval system. I
made a video breaking that down when it
came out. Then two weeks ago on March
12th, LinkedIn went fully public. Hristo
Denkev, who works on LinkedIn's flagship
AI team, published a deep technical
breakdown on the engineering blog.
LinkedIn's corporate communications team
put out an official announcement and Tim
Jerka, LinkedIn's VP of engineering, who
spent 13 years building the feed, posted
directly on LinkedIn explaining how it
all works. Between those sources and
what we've been seeing across client
accounts at Distinctia, the picture is
very clear. LinkedIn is rolling out a
fundamentally rebuilt system that
decides what content you see and the
rules changed. And to be clear about
where this comes from, the retrieval
paper was written by LinkedIn engineers
published from their LinkedIn.com emails
describing experiments run on LinkedIn's
actual platform with real AB test data.
Then LinkedIn's own engineering blog
published a companion piece describing
the exact same architecture. Then
corporate confirmed it's deployed. These
aren't leaks. These aren't rumors.
LinkedIn published this themselves. For
years, LinkedIn ran multiple separate
systems at the same time. One tracked
your network's activity in chronological
order. Another handled trending posts by
geography. Another ran collaborative
filtering based on similar members
interests. Another tracked industry
specific trending content. And several
more ran on embedding based retrieval.
Each system had its own infrastructure,
its own logic, and its own biases.
That's why the old advice worked. Go at
8 a.m. Get your pod to comment
immediately. Stuff your post with
hashtags. You were gaming individual
machines. And it worked because those
machines were simple enough to trick.
LinkedIn is replacing those separate
systems with a unified retrieval model
powered by a fine-tuned large language
model, specifically Meta's Llama 3. And
on top of that, they built a new ranking
model called a generative recommener
that uses transformer architecture to
understand how you consume content over
time. This isn't a small update. This is
a groundup rebuild of both how content
gets discovered and how it gets ranked,
and it changes what works. Now, before I
get into the eight rules, I need to
correct something from my last video. A
senior AI and machine learning leader
named Adam Bird left a comment with two
important clarifications, and he's
right. First, not all your profile
fields determine whether your post
reaches someone else's feed. Only your
author data gets encoded on the content
side. That is your name, headline,
company, industry, and title. Five
fields. The full rich profile like your
skills, a job history, certification,
languages. That's used on the viewer
side to understand what they want to
see. Second, your engagement with other
people's post doesn't affect whether
your content reaches someone else. It
only shapes what gets served in your own
feed. Those distinctions change what you
optimize for. So, let's get tactical
now. Rule one, rewrite your headline.
Not just for humans, for the AI, too.
Your headline is one of only five fields
that travel with your content into
someone else's feed. The AI uses it to
decide who should see your post. So if
your headline says random things like
thought leader and change maker, the
system has zero semantic signal. It
can't match you to anyone. Your headline
needs to contain the words your ideal
client would use to describe what they
need, not what you do necessarily, what
they need. The more specific your author
data is, the more accurately the AI can
deliver your content to the right
people. So, here's what to do right now.
Open your profile, read your headline,
ask yourself, if my ideal client saw
these word, would they immediately know
this person can help me? If the answer
is no, rewrite it before you close this
video. Rule number two, your first 50
words are your algorithm audition. In
LinkedIn's tested model configuration,
the retrieval system truncates your post
text to the first 60 tokens when
deciding whether to include you in the
candidate pool. That's roughly 45 to 50
words. Everything after that matters for
ranking once you're already in the pool.
But the initial filter, the part that
decides whether your post even gets
considered, focuses on the beginning. So
your hook isn't just for humans. It's
for the AI as well. If you spend your
first 50 words on setup, context, or
slow warm-up, the system doesn't have
enough information to match you to the
right audience. So here's what to do.
Pull up your last five LinkedIn posts.
Count the first 50 words of each one. Do
these words actually contain enough
signal for an AI and a human to
understand what this post is about and
who it's for? If those first 50 words
could belong to anyone in your industry,
they're too generic. Your hook needs
your topic and your audience baked into
the opening line. Rule number three, go
deep or go invisible. The old LinkedIn
rewarded breath. Hot takes. Generic
advice. anything that could get the
maximum number of people to engage. The
new system is the opposite. LinkedIn's
engineering blog explains this directly.
The LLM uses world knowledge to
understand connections between topics
that keyword systems couldn't see
before. Their example, if you are an
electrical engineer who engages with
posts about small modular reactors, the
old system couldn't connect those. The
new system understands the semantic
relationship between electrical
engineering, power grid optimization,
renewable energy, and nuclear
infrastructure. It makes those
connections through world knowledge. And
Tim Jerka confirmed this on his post.
Exceptional content can be distributed
broadly across LinkedIn to members who
are interested in the type of content
you post, even if they don't follow you.
Every piece of content has its own path
based on topic, format, and timing. So,
if you try to be about everything, the
AI can't build a clear embedding for
you. You become unmatchable. But if you
go deep on a specific professional
topic, the system gets extremely good at
finding exactly the right people to show
your content to. So, here's what to do.
Look at your last 20 posts. Could the AI
identify a clear topical pattern? Or
would it see a random mix of
productivity tips, leadership quotes,
and industry commentary? Pick your lane
and commit to it for the next 90 days.
The algorithm categorizes you over time.
Give it something clear to work with.
Now, if you want to actually run through
all of this step by step, I built a free
LinkedIn algorithm audit kit that walks
you through every rule in this video
with checklists and AI prompts you can
use to audit your own profile and
content. I'll link it in the description
below. Grab that and let's keep going
because the next five rules are where it
gets really tactical. Rule four, write
posts that earn saves, not likes.
Authored Up ran an analysis on
engagement impact across their platform
and found that one save equals roughly
five times the reach impact of a single
like. And when you understand how the
new system works, that tracks. The
system is optimized to find what
LinkedIn calls professional interactors.
people who take meaningful actions, not
passive scrollers. A like is the lowest
effort signal you can send. A save is
high intent. It tells the algorithm this
person found so much value they want to
come back to it. So the question is, are
you writing content that people want to
reference later? Frameworks they can
apply, data they can site, playbooks
they can follow, checklists they can use
in their next meeting. That's what earns
saves. Motivational content doesn't get
saved. Tactical content does. Here's
what to do. Before you publish your next
post, ask yourself, would my ideal
client bookmark this? Would they send it
to a colleague? If the answer is no, add
something specific, a framework, a set
of numbers, a step-by-step breakdown.
Give them a reason to hit save. Rule
five. Early engagement can still matter,
but not for the reason you think. When
LinkedIn first tried feeding raw
engagement numbers into their model, the
AI treated them like random text. A post
with 12,345
views, the model just saw digits. The
correlation between popularity and how
well the model matched content to the
right people was basically zero. So they
converted everything into percentiles.
Instead of raw numbers, the system now
sees this post is in the 71st percentile
of view counts. That change alone made
the model significantly better at
understanding which content was
performing well. The engineering blog
says the correlation jumped 30 times and
recall improved by 15%. So what does
this mean? Early engagement still
matters not because of velocity like the
old system because it moves your post
into a higher popularity percentile
which makes the AI more confident about
showing it to a broader audience. But
the engagement has to be real. The
system is reading quality, not just
counting. Here's what to do. Stop
relying on pods or asking friends to
drop a like in the first hour. Instead,
focus on writing a hook strong enough
that the first organic viewers actually
engage and reply to every comment in the
first 2 hours. Real conversations signal
to the system that this post is
generating genuine professional
interaction. Rule number six, your
engagement history trains your own feed.
So use that strategically. The system
maintains a timeordered list of every
post you've positively engaged with and
it only keeps the positive signals. They
actually tested including negative
signals, posts you saw but didn't engage
with and it made the model actually
worse. Removing negative signals reduced
memory usage by 37% processed 40% more
training data per batch and made
training 2.6 times faster. better
results and less compute at the same
time. And LinkedIn built a generative
recommener that treats your engagement
history as a sequence. When you engage
with machine learning content on Monday,
distributed systems on Tuesday and open
LinkedIn again on Wednesday, the system
understands that as a professional
learning journey, not three random data
points. It maps your curiosity arc over
time. Now, Adam Bird confirmed that your
engagement with other post doesn't
affect whether your content reaches
someone else. This is about your own
feed. But your feed shapes what inspires
your content and what you create is what
the algorithm distributes. Here's what
to do. Be intentional about what you
engage with. Engage heavily with content
in your niche. like, comment on, and
save posts from creators covering your
topic area or people that are in your
ICP. You're training the algorithm to
show you the best thinking in your
space, which will sharpen what you
create or get you closer to the people
you actually want to sell to. Rule
number seven, LinkedIn is actively
killing engagement baits and pods. This
isn't speculation. LinkedIn's official
announcement on March 12th says it
directly. They are working to make
engagement pods ineffective and curb
comment automation and third-party tools
that create fake conversations. They are
reducing repetitive low substant posts
and engagement bait where the caption
doesn't really match the content. The
new system tracks dwell time and genuine
engagement patterns. It distinguishes
between someone who read your post and
left a thoughtful comment versus someone
who typed great insight in two seconds
without actually reading. So, here's
what to do. If you're in a pod, get out.
If you're using automation tools for
comments, stop. If you're writing posts
designed to gain distribution rather
than deliver genuine value, understand
that the system is now specifically
built to identify that and suppress it,
right? for humans. The I is watching
whether the humans actually care. Learn
how to create organic content that
actually performs well instead of always
trying to gain the system. And I know
what you are thinking. You can see other
creators doing all of this and their
posts look like they're performing, but
you're only seeing likes and comments.
You don't see their impressions. You
don't see their actual reach. You don't
see whether any of it is actually
converting into business. What you see
on the surface doesn't tell you what's
happening underneath. Play the long
game. Learn how to create organic
content good enough that you don't need
to rely on hacks and cheat codes because
the system is only getting smarter and
the people who build their reach on
shortcuts are the ones who are going to
lose first. Rule number eight, smaller
accounts just got a structural
advantage. This is the most
counterintuitive finding. LinkedIn's AB
test data from the retrieval paper shows
that the new system produced a 3.29%
revenue increase for members with fewer
connections and a 1.17%
increase in professional interactions.
The biggest beneficiaries of the rebuild
are smaller, newer accounts. The old
system was biased toward large networks.
If you had 50,000 connections, you had a
built-in distribution network just
through network activity. The new system
matches content interest regardless of
network size. Shield Analytics just
published their February 2026
benchmarks. Medium impressions per post
by follower count. Someone with 1 to 5K
followers gets about 479 impressions. 5
to 10K gets 774. 25 to 50K gets 2,143.
And accounts with 100K plus followers
get a median of 12,520
impressions per post. These are medians.
The top 10% and top 1% travel way
further. And we're seeing this
firsthand. One of our clients at
Distinctiva has 17,000 followers. And in
the last 28 days, he's generated over 1
million impressions and reached 390,000
unique members. That's numbers that
accounts with 100K followers aren't
hitting. Same platform, same algorithm.
The difference is the content. Here's
what to do. If you've been waiting to
build a bigger audience before going
serious on LinkedIn, stop waiting. The
system just got rebuilt in your favor.
Start posting now. Go deep on your
topic. Write posts worth saving. The
algorithm will find your audience for
you. That is literally what it was
designed to do. You don't need to be a
huge creator now to be able to reach the
right audience. And honestly, I love
that about the new algorithm. Now, if
you're watching this and thinking, I
want to actually implement this with
other people who are doing the same
thing. I'm building a community for
exactly that. people who are serious
about LinkedIn content strategy and
building real authority in their space.
And this isn't just a course where you
watch me go through slides and can't
reach out or ask questions. This is a
space where we get into your specific
situation, personal questions answered,
boot camps, live Q&As's, a space to
learn how to build organic content
correctly, to create content you're
actually proud of, to stop feeling FOMO
over huge influencers gaming the system
because that's what we are good at,
organic, genuine content. And that's the
whole point. If you want early access,
the weight list link is in the
description. Okay, now this was a lot.
So, let me bring it all together. The
algorithm didn't get worse, it got
smarter, like every social media
platform. And LinkedIn told us exactly
how the research papers came first.
Then, 360 Brew got taken down. Then, the
engineering blog went up. Then, Tim
Jerka, VP of engineering, posted
publicly. Then corporate put out an
official announcement confirming all of
it. This isn't LinkedIn gurus guessing.
This is LinkedIn's own people explaining
what they built. Your checklist. Go do
these right now. One, rewrite your
headline with your ICP's language. Two,
check your first 50 words on every post.
Three, pick a clear topic lane and
commit for 90 days. Four, write posts
that earn saves, not just likes. Five,
stop chasing early velocity. Focus on
real engagement. Six, be intentional
about what you engage with in your own
feed. Seven, get out of pods and stop
using automation. Eight, start posting
now regardless of your audience size.
Every source I referenced is linked in
the description. the archive paper, the
engineering blog, the official
announcement, Tim Jerka's post. Read
them yourself. The free audit kit is
down there, too, with AI prompts to help
you run through every rule. If you want
us to do this for you, that's what the
Sinctiva does. Links in the description
or DM me on LinkedIn. And look, I see so
many people saying LinkedIn is dead,
that reaches down, that the platform
doesn't work anymore. And at the same
time, I'm watching people build
businesses, close deals, and get in
front of exactly the right audience
every single day. Both are happening on
the same platform. The difference isn't
the algorithm. It's whether you
understand how it works and create
content worth distributing. Subscribe if
you want more of this. I'll see you in
the next